#LyX 1.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 2.16
\textclass article
\language default
\inputencoding default
\fontscheme default
\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single 
\papersize Default
\paperpackage a4
\use_geometry 0
\use_amsmath 0
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\quotes_times 2
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default

\layout Title

Fitgal - A galaxy bulge disk decomposition code
\layout Author

Yogesh Wadadekar and Ajit Kembhavi
\layout Date

Version 1.4 May 2003
\layout Standard


\begin_inset LatexCommand \tableofcontents{}

\end_inset 


\layout Abstract

Fitgal is a open source C and FORTRAN code for two dimensional bulge disk
 decomposition developed at IUCAA in Pune, India.
 It capabilities have been described in Wadadekar, Robbason and Kembhavi
 (1999).
\layout Section

What is Fitgal
\layout Standard

Two dimensional galaxy image decomposition has been gaining popularity in
 recent years.
 (Byun and Freeman 1995; Bagget, Bagget and Anderson 1998; Wadadekar, Robbason
 and Kembhavi (1999); D'Onofrio 1999).
 Fitgal is a robust, documented open source code.
 It uses the PGPLOT library for graphical representation of the fitting
 process.
 
\layout Subsection

Who uses fitgal ?
\layout Standard

Fitgal has been used at the following locations:
\layout Enumerate

Extra-galactic Astrophysics Group, TIFR
\layout Enumerate

Extra-galactic Astrophysics Group, IUCAA
\layout Section

Installing the software
\layout Subsection

Software and Hardware requirements:
\layout Standard

Fitgal has been designed to be portable across Unix and Unix-like systems.
 It has been compiled and used on SunOS, Solaris, Digital UNIX, IRIX and
 Linux.
 It uses the CPGPLOT (C binding for PGPLOT) library for graphical output
 to monitor the fitting process.
 If you do not have PGPLOT installed on your system already, you need to
 download and install it from 
\family typewriter 
http://www.astro.caltech.edu/~tjp/pgplot/
\layout Standard

Fitgal places no specific requirements on the hardware.
 However a Sun Ultra class worstation is required if you want to process
 significant number of galaxies in a reasonable amount of time.
\layout Subsection

Obtaining fitgal
\layout Standard

Fitgal 1.4 source in tar.gz format may be downloaded from the following URL
 You can find here the latest version of the software along with some documentat
ion.
\layout Subsection

Installation
\layout Standard

To install you must first uncompress and untar the archive:
\layout Standard


\family typewriter 
gzip -dc fitgal1.4.tar.gz | tar xv
\layout Standard

A new directory called fitgal 1.4 should now appear in your current working
 directory.
 Then cd to that directory and follow the installation instructions in the
 file called INSTALL.
\layout Section

Using the software
\layout Subsection

Running fitgal
\layout Standard

Fitgal is started from the command prompt by simply typing fitgal.
 This starts the minimisation process.
 Periodic visual reports are provided about the progress of the fit.
 All parameters related to the fitting are set in configuration files described
 below.
\layout Subsection

Configuration files
\layout Standard

Several configuration files are required by fitgal.
 These are:
\layout Enumerate


\family typewriter 
fitgal_min.d 
\family default 
contains configuration parameters for the minimization by MINUIT.
 Please check the documentation for details on the syntax of this file.
\layout Enumerate

fitgal.conf: Here you need to specify where the galaxy data is sitting, a
 bad pixel file (can be empty), sigma (FWHM/2.35) for a Gaussian PSF in pixels,
 the X and Y coordinates of the center of the galaxy and the position angle
 (starting value).
\layout Section

Interpreting the outputs
\layout Standard

The main output files are:
\layout Enumerate

fitgal.results: minimized bulge and disk parameters
\layout Enumerate

fitgal.convresults: the same values as above but formatted for better human
 readibility.
\layout Enumerate

pgplot.gif and pgplot.ps contain visual representations of the final fit.
\layout Enumerate

fitgal.output: The best fit model image in ASCII format
\layout Enumerate

fitgal.ans: File created by MINUIT giving details of the progress of the
 fit, exit conditions etc.
 and errors on the parameters
\layout Section

FAQ
\layout Standard

\the_end
